STEP 1: 
Switch on PC’s of Core Network, eNB and Router. 


STEP 2: Perform the following operations on Core Network PC. 
Open the terminal window. 


STEP 3: 
In Terminal 1: To check CN IP address. 
Enter: ifconfig 
Note down, the IP address of enp0s31f6


STEP 4: 
Switch on the eNB PC and open terminal window 


STEP 5: Perform the following operations on eNB PC 
In Terminal 1: To check eNB IP address. 
Enter: ifconfig 
Note down, the IP address of enp0s31f6 


STEP 6: This operation is performed on eNB PC to ping CN PC 
In the terminal window ping the ip address of CN enp0s31f6 from eNB PC 
ping 192.168.1.2 or your system ip address
After few pings, press ctrl+C 


STEP 7: This operation is performed on CN PC to ping eNB PC. 
In the terminal window ping the ip address of eNB enp0s31f6 from CN PC 
ping 192.168.1.3  or your system ip address


STEP 8: Perform the following operations on Core Network PC. 
Open a new terminal window, type the following to create a tcpdump to record 
communication and exchanges between eNB and CN to provide insight into UE, E- 
UTRAN, MME and SGW. 
sudo tcpdump -i any -w cn.pcap 
or 
sudo tcpdump -i any -w student_id_number_date_cn.pcap 



STEP 9: 
Open a new terminal window, type the following to enable Home Subscriber Server 
(HSS) 
startHSS


STEP 10: 
Open a new terminal window, type the following to enable Mobility Management 
Entity (MME) 
startMME 

STEP 11: 
Open a new terminal window, type the following to enable Serving Gateway Control 
plane function (SGW-C) 
startSPGWC


STEP 11: 
Open a new terminal window, type the following to enable Serving Gateway Control 
plane function (SGW-C) 
startSPGWC


STEP 13: 
Open a new terminal window, type the following to view number of users equipment’s 
connected to the non-standalone network (4G network) 
showUsers 

STEP 14: Perform the following operations on eNB PC. 
Open a new terminal window, type the following to create a tcpdump to record 
communication and exchanges between eNB and CN to provide insight into UE, E- 
UTRAN, MME and SGW. 
sudo tcpdump -i any -w enb.pcap 
or 
sudo tcpdump -i any -w student_id_number_date_enb.pcap



STEP 15:  
Open a new terminal window, type the following to enable Evolved Node B (eNB) 
StarteNB



STEP 16: Perform the following operations on Core Network PC. 
Please check the terminal window of STEP 13 (showUsers), students can view their 
user equipment’s has connected to the non-standalone network (4G network). 



After STEP 16, press ctrl+C in all open terminals to end operations in CN and eNB PCs. 
• Transfer the .pcap files from STEP 8 and STEP 14 to student storage device or student 
folder on desktop for Analyzing User Equipment registration process in 4G mobile network. 



Some important things 
1. Illustrate the features of Core Network. 
2. Illustrate the features of eNB. 
3. Interpret the connection between CN and eNB. 
4. Discuss the latency time between CN and eNB (step 6 and 7). 
5. Interpret UE. 
6. Interpret E-UTRAN. 
7. Show which PC is CN. 
8. Show which PC is eNB. 
9. Illustrate STEP 8. 
10. Illustrate Home Subscriber Server (HSS).
